CASSANDRA-17598 May2022 blog "Apache Cassandra Changelog 15" (#127)
apache/cassandra-website: site-content/source/modules/ROOT/pages/blog/Apache-Cassandra-Changelog-15-May-2022.adoc

= Apache Cassandra Changelog #15
:page-layout: single-post
:page-role: blog-post
:page-post-date: May 5, 2022
:page-post-author: The Apache Cassandra Community
:description: The Apache Cassandra Community
:keywords: 

image::blog/changelog_header.jpg[Apache Cassandra Changelog]
Our monthly roundup of key activities and knowledge to keep the community informed.

== Release Notes

=== Released

We hit an important milestone on 1st May 2022. Although this Changelog looks back at the previous month, we want to highlight this significant milestone for the project. We have now hit our one-year branch and frozen the code for the release of Apache Cassandra 4.1. Any further changes at this point will be bug fixes before we announce General Availability (GA). Special thanks go to *Mick Semb Wever* for all the work that has gone into the release process.

> *Note:* for this release cycle only, we will continue to support 3.0.3 as well as the 3.11., 4.0., and 4.1 latest patch version. See xref:blog/Behind-the-scenes-of-an-Apache-Cassandra-Release.adoc[Behind the Scenes of an Apache Cassandra Release] for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note:* for this release cycle only, we will continue to support Cassandra 3.0 so there will be four supported versions - 3.0.latest, 3.11.latest, 4.0.latest and 4.1.latest. See xref:blog/Behind-the-scenes-of-an-Apache-Cassandra-Release.adoc[Behind the Scenes of an Apache Cassandra Release] for more details.
```

_We also recommend taking a look at two Jira ticket queries we’ve created. One is a Kanban board for https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/RapidBoard.jspa?rapidView=496&quickFilter=2252[“Failing Tests” tickets that are unassigned^] and the other corresponds to our https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/RapidBoard.jspa?rapidView=484&quickFilter=2162&quickFilter=2160[Low Hanging Fruit or “Starter Tickets”^] for 4.0.x and 4.1.x. Feel free to self-select a ticket to work on._ 

_Any of these tickets should be of appropriate complexity for someone new to the project to tackle. Just remember to assign yourself to the ticket and acknowledge the status, such as ‘Work in Progress’ and ‘Needs Comitter/Patch Available’ when you submit your patch. You can also reach out on the https://the-asf.slack.com/[ASF Slack^] in the #cassandra-dev Slack channel. Use @cassandra_mentors to contact our Cassandra mentors!_

Read PMC member Josh McKenzie’s https://lists.apache.org/thread/lnmw2b4hzkl977p9hxv1sbdfqlq5snc6[latest bi-weekly update^] for ongoing discussions and the latest on ticket progress.

=== Discussed

> As we mentioned, above, we forked Cassandra 4.1 and froze the branch on 1 May. The community has also agreed to block releases on green CI and are https://butler.cassandra.apache.org/#/[cleaning up test failures^] before release.

Reviewer: Just making the dates consistent as `Mmm D` (instead of `D Mmm`):
```suggestion
As we mentioned, above, we forked Cassandra 4.1 and froze the branch on May 1. The community has also agreed to block releases on green CI and are https://butler.cassandra.apache.org/#/[cleaning up test failures^] before release.
```

=== Discussed

The Apache Foundation in conjunction with the Apache Cassandra PMC will be hosting a 2-day Cassandra track at https://www.apachecon.com/acna2022/[ApacheCon North America^], which will take place between October 3-6 at the Sheraton Hotel, New Orleans. 

:!figure-caption:

.Apache Cassandra has a dedicated track at ApacheCon North America 2022 and there’s an opportunity to contribute to the Performance Engineering track as well, so get submitting!
image::blog/ApacheCon2022banner.png[ApacheCon 2022]

> The CFP is open now and will run until 23 May 23rd for talks on the Cassandra Track. Read the recent xref:blog/ApacheCon-NA-2022-Call-for-Papers-Open.adoc[blog post] for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CFP is open now and will run until May 23 for talks on the Cassandra Track. Read the recent xref:blog/ApacheCon-NA-2022-Call-for-Papers-Open.adoc[blog post] for more details.
```

If you have something you did on the project, something you're thinking about doing, a fascinating use-case, or anything you think would be interesting to your fellow Cassandra practitioners, please don't hesitate to submit a proposal for it.

=== Discussed

> ApacheCon North America will also include a Performance Engineering track for the first time this year. This is an opportunity to share your Apache Cassandra experiences, lessons learned, and innovations in this space. See the CFP details https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/call-papers-performance-engineering-track-apachecon-paul-brebner/[here^]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ApacheCon North America will also include a Performance Engineering track for the first time this year. This is an opportunity to share your Apache Cassandra experiences, lessons learned, and innovations in this space. See the CFP details https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/call-papers-performance-engineering-track-apachecon-paul-brebner/[here^].
```

=== Discussed

Based on https://lists.apache.org/thread/fnlzos2v78xmgxhz37xsskpdc30dl95l[discussions^], *Erick Ramirez* is developing https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-ZYpl9tif9OAMdAxFLxA1mTPNp0zkNW4kzXvfvRBHUc/edit?usp=sharing[a 1-page guide^] to help users provide helpful details in their questions so they can obtain the answers they need quickly from the community and save time. 

=== Discussed

We continue to need more volunteers for the https://lists.apache.org/thread/zhkc0190wvw168pygw186x4f88kcx9qw[Build Lead role^]. As you might expect, there are more changes going into the trunk for the new release, and this role has been instrumental in helping us map our current CI situation. But, as *Mick Semb Wever* has indicated in the mailing list thread, we haven’t achieved a green ASF infrastructure CI on trunk yet, which is a key goal for the project. The build lead role has been instrumental in building and maintaining momentum on cleaning up CI. You can learn more about the role on the https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/x/DI3kCw[confluence wiki^].

=== Discussed

> *Ekaterina Dimitrova*  https://lists.apache.org/thread/9lo1hccvf93828k9rf1hkr2176kcvx8h[confirmed again] some details around the new format and backward compatibility for data storage, data rate and duration configuration parameters. Please reach out if you have any questions or concerns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Ekaterina Dimitrova*  https://lists.apache.org/thread/9lo1hccvf93828k9rf1hkr2176kcvx8h[confirmed again^] some details around the new format and backward compatibility for data storage, data rate and duration configuration parameters. Please reach out if you have any questions or concerns.
```
